---
title: "Practice and talent"
date: 2021-02-28 00:00:00
published: false
---

I went out today on the local Ride Forever course. Here's the basic premise:

1. Motorbike riders have a disproportionate amount of accidents and injuries per kilometre travelled, compared to other road users. 
2. New Zealand has a government entity called the Accident Compensation Corporation (ACC) which pays to look after people who get hurt.
3. Motorbike registration includes an extra ACC levy to reflect the higher risk that they'll need ACC's help.

However, this is New Zealand, where we very sensibly recognise that a hectogram of prevention[^1] is worth a kilogram of cure, so...

{:start="4"}
4. The ACC has a scheme called [Ride Forever](https://www.rideforever.co.nz/) which provides heavily-subsidised rider training across the country, with an emphasis on enjoying the hobby safely. It usually costs $50 out of pocket.

Additionally...

{:start="5"}
5. The Nelson City Council further subsidises this programme all the way to "free". I speculate that the relatively difficult roads just out of town, and relatively older population of riders, might have led to this.

God bless this country and its sensible government programmes.

Anyway, what I actually wanted to talk about was the idea of practice and talent.

# Chapter One: Attitude

I was raised as a "gifted" child, which is a mixed blessing. The trap that ensnares a lot of us is to regard competence - in whatever skill - as innate, as a result of talent. Your skillset emerges spontaneously, because you're gifted, and that will carry you some distance on its own. So, whispers the little voice in the wee hours of the morning, if you aren't currently good at something, you don't have a talent for it and you'll never be good at it.

This doesn't account for two important pieces of learning: **teaching** and **practice**.

You often don't have to practice to be adequate in school, and that lets you reap the acceptance without ever learning to *work* for it. But then... at some point, the material gets harder, and depends on knowledge you used to have but have never revised, so you need to revise it, but you don't know how to do that effectively.

Point is, a lot of former "gifted" kids end up in the real world with unhealthy attitudes to learning.


# Chapter Two: Bikes

Skip forward a few years, and I started wanting to get into motorbikes. My university had a market day, and an ebike shop came along to sell a few hybrid bicycles to students. I had a go, and I really liked being able to get up hills on a bicycle. I started thinking about how to get one, but then thought... hang on, bicycles are limited to 250W of assist, which will let you cruise around 25-30km/h easily. What about their bigger, heavier, roadworthy cousins, the motorbike?

I also knew I loved driving, but didn't have a car at this point. Just couldn't justify the cost as a student.

So I dipped my toe into the waters and booked in for a learner course. I packed my backpack, caught a train down to the Gold Coast, did one day, stayed the night at a cheap motel nearby, and went back for day two.

I was **terrible**.

No sense of balance, very little confidence or assertiveness, and painfully shy to boot. It seemed like half the class had had years of experience on dirt bikes or at least bicycles, and were just here to tick the boxes so they could get out on the road.

It didn't help that learner courses keep you at very low speeds for a long time, to ensure you can go up to higher speeds safely. Motorbikes are much more stable above ~15km/h, and we barely saw that on day one, so I was wobbling all over the place and having a lot of regrets. We did a lot of starting-and-stopping drills and they felt pretty terrible.

The second half of the second day is an assessment to get your learner licence, so you can get out on public roads with a supervisor and get enough experience to - after a few months - come back, pass another test, get your open licence and go solo.

Before that assessment, the instructor very kindly and very sensibly took me aside and said, hey, you can come along and attempt your learner licence today, but I think you might not be ready. If you walk away now we won't charge you for the assessment, you can get some more supervised training, and come back when you're ready.

That really stung. I'm not used to failing like that. I did take his advice, packed up and went home early. Came down another weekend for another session, took the test, and scraped through.



Look, I don't know why I kept going at first. Sunk cost fallacy? It's motivated enough people through history.

# Chapter Three: Practice

[the whole R15 saga could probably be three paragraphs max - intro, crashes, and lack of use and theft. maybe also getting it stuck between two hills!]
My first bike was a Yamaha R15, a single-cylinder 150cc bike which could just about keep up with traffic (although it maxed out on motorways so I tended to avoid them). It was a budget pick, and in hindsight it was way too small for me. There were some "gorilla on a bicycle" vibes. [^2]

I dropped it a fair few times, including twice on the same hill, and lowsided it on a go-kart track in front of the whole class. That left a bit of a bruise on my hip but a bigger bruise on my pride, especially when I had to sit out the next round trying to bend the gear lever back into place and get the engine switched on again.

Eventually it was stolen out of the apartment complex and I got a payout.[^3] Didn't replace it because it hadn't had much use - I think I calculated that between rego, insurance and maintenance, it had cost me $30 every time I'd taken it out.

Then I bought a CBR250R, with a whole 250cc! It could go on motorways but didn't like to. 
It also didn't get as much use as it deserved, and when I left the Gold Coast and didn't have anywhere to park it, I was relieved to get rid of it. Stopped riding for a while - I'd had two bikes, done everything right, but it still felt like more pain than pleasure? Maybe the hobby isn't for me.

...
...

# Chapter ?: Mentoring

I was lucky in Brisbane to have plenty of opportunities for learning. There are some superb twisties just out of town, where you can realise that your limits are actually very limited, and really practice on pushing them back

I went out with a couple of groups who weren't suitable, at all, for a beginner rider. Luckily I knew enough to recognise that[^4] and declined further invitations.

[Top Rider](https://toprider.com.au) were just down the coast, and they're a great outfit with good attitudes to learning. I signed up for a fair few events over the years, and every cent was worthwhile.

# Peter
[sequencing this is hard - chronologically it was ToB first, then eventually Peter, but the problem with that is that his mentoring flows well with Top Rider and the bad groups]

A friend's dad also ended up inviting me on some rides, and his attitude was a real inspiration. Once you're good, you can have fun, be safe, and enjoy it.

There's a story I end up citing a lot, so skip ahead if you've heard this one. We'd gone up Mt Glorious a couple of times, and the runs had always followed a pattern: we'd meet at the petrol station in the nearest suburb, ride together to the start of the mountains, the pace would start to heat up, and he'd just disappear. Eventually I'd reach the cafe at the top of the mountain, and he'd be there, chatting to another random rider and cheerfully waiting for me to join him for a coffee. We'd set off down the other side of the mountain, and the same thing would happen: three corners in, he would have disappeared entirely, and I'd only catch up when he stopped at the bottom.

So that's the pattern.

One day, he suggested that we swap bikes. For real? He had a beautiful BMW adventure sports bike, which I still lust after. It was easily worth two or three times anything I'd ridden so far, more power, far more electronics, and - it turned out - more comfortable too. I was thrilled. We swapped over, putting him on my learner-approved V-Strom 650. A third the power, and nowhere near the calibre of tyres or suspension. Finally, the 'handicap' bike was his burden not mine, and I was looking forward to finally keeping up.

Well... I think I made it to **four** corners that time, before the V-Strom's rear licence plate presumably teleported straight to the cafe at the top of the mountain.

Turns out that it's not about the bike you've bought; it's about confidence and corner speed. I hadn't realised just how much I slowed for corners and how much lean angle was still available. It wasn't the bike, it was me.

# Variety


[Time on Bikes](https://timeonbikes.com.au) are also superb. A friend mentioned them at a party, and this was a year or two after I'd sold off the CBR, but they seemed like an accessible re-entry point to riding, so I went along with him once. Tried out some new kinds of bikes and blam, I was hooked again.


[Time on Bikes and how trying out all these different varieties changed the game for me. Upright/standard/naked, adventure, cruiser, then tried a sport-tourer and realised I just don't like sportbikes, then dailying the MT-09, trying out the Goldwing and MT-10. Friendly attitude, cheerful peer pressure, low-commitment "oh yeah just try that one and see you in half an hour". Real enthusiast shop.]

# Teaching
[Phill and then Mike]
Riding halfway across town for an evening practice session was in itself good practice, and then regurgitating and re-emphasising what I'd paid to learn really make those lessons click in a way they hadn't previously.

# Chapter ?: Return to Ride Safe

At one point, we did a U-turn across the road onto a gravel stopping area. I did _something_ wrong - too much back brake, maybe? - and nearly dropped it, but just managed to save it. My nervous laughter was broadcast straight to everyone else in the group.

# Footnotes

[^1]: A hectogram is [one hundred grams](https://www.nist.gov/pml/weights-and-measures/metric-si-prefixes), and therefore is a tenth of a kilogram. I had to look it up. It's not as neat an idiom as "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure", but imperial measurements need to go the way of cruise ships.
[^2]: First and last time I've felt like a gorilla on anything.
[^3]: In hindsight, getting comprehensive insurance on a $3k bike betrays some inexperience. It paid off, as it happened, but I wouldn't do it again.
[^4]: If the guy you've just met shows you a video of his Ducati doing 200km/h along a NSW country road, maybe he's not right for you.
