---
title: "Some jq tricks"
excerpt: "Learned a few things today, thought I'd post them online. Some binary search is involved."
date: 2022-03-15 00:00:00
tags: jq programming
published: true
---

Learned a few things today, thought I'd post them online as code snippets.

I was using [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) to manage some infrastructure, and some resource was giving me grief - breaking the program and giving an unbeatably vague error message when I tried to do a plan involving it. Unfortunately the TF state file was over a thousand lines, and so it was hard to track down the resource in question. It was hard to isolate individual resources in such a big file.

Each domain name creates four kinds of resources from each zone, so that meant working with four separate arrays in the JSON.[^1] So: I needed to manipulate the 4 kinds of resources created from each zone, directly in tfstate, and remove everything except the broken part to _know_ what's causing the problem. Processing JSON? Sounds like a task for the sublime [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/).

## Setup

Given a tfstate file like:

```json
{"resources": [
  {something boring},
  {"name": "parking_dkim",
   "instances": [
      {"index_key": "lord.geek.nz", ...},
      {"index_key": "dal-corp.com", ...},
      ... lots more instances here
    ]},
  {"name": "parking_dmarc",
    "instances": [
       {"index_key": "lord.geek.nz", ...},
       {"index_key": "dal-corp.com", ...},
      ... lots more instances here
     ]}
}
```

Back up the original file:
```sh
cp prod.tfvars prod_full.tfvars
```
and then run the following examples like this:
```sh
jq -f example.jq < prod_full.tfvars > prod.tfvars
```

**Let's get into it**.

## Binary search functions vs an array of numbers

Make your own functions for a binary search by chaining these:

```jq
def right_half(addr):
  del(addr[0:(addr|length)/2]);
def left_half(addr):
  del(
    addr[
      ((addr|length)/2 | floor) : ]
  );

[range(1; 18)] |
right_half(.) |
left_half(.)
```
The example starts with the array [1..18], then takes the right half. It slices that up and takes the left half of what's left, returning [10, 11, 12, 13].

With these functions in hand, you can apply them to do your own binary search in tfstate. Narrow down and see what's breaking it.

## Binary search on the Terraform state

Try modifying the state by removing half of it, then run Terraform again, and see if it breaks:

```jq
def right_half(addr):
  del(addr.instances[0:(addr.instances|length)/2]);
def left_half(addr):
  del(
    addr.instances[
      ((addr.instances|length)/2 | floor) : ]
  );

left_half(.resources[1,2,3,4])
```

If that works fine (no error), try the right half instead:
```jq
# declarations as above
right_half(.resources[1,2,3,4])
```

Say that showed the error, then you'd subdivide it:
```jq
# declarations as above
right_half(.resources[1,2,3,4]) |
left_half(.resources[1,2,3,4])
```

If that shows the error, great, add another `| left_half` to keep narrowing it down. If not, try `| right_half` again. Keep doing this until you've found one set of resources corresponding to one domain. Tada, you've done it.

Once you know what you're looking for, or only a couple, you can try another approach to only keep specific domains' resources and discard the rest.

## Another approach: filtering elements based on sub-elements

This syntax is super useful, using the [update operator](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/manual/) with `map` and `select`.

You can filter members of the resources array by whether their index\_key has one of the zones you want.

```jq
["lord.geek.nz", "dal-corp.com", "angry.nerds"] as $targets |
.resources[1,2,3,4].instances |= map(select([.index_key] | inside($targets))) |
```

## Wrapping up

This is not the best explanation I can write (promise!) but I hope these code samples come in handy for you.

The [jq manual](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/manual/) is packed full of useful information. It's usually a better place to start than StackOverflow.

[^1]: Hashicorp [discourage you from treating it as JSON](https://www.terraform.io/language/state), but if I respected warning labels, I wouldn't have eaten all those paint chips as a kid. Lead is an all-natural sweetener and sometimes you've just gotta hack some state.
